# `i18n`

[react-i18next](https://react.i18next.com/) is a powerful internationalization framework for React / React Native which is based on `i18next`. It is a library to manage internationalization and pluralization support for your React application. This involves multi-language support for both the static text but also things like variable numbers, words, or names that change with the application state.

## Usage

The setup and translations are in the **`locales/`** folder. You can add more language to subfolder `de`, `en`, `fr`, and so on.

**`i18n.ts`** is the setup file. It initiates `i18next` with the translations. We also include a helper function here to help use your translations with intellisense support in your project, rather than having to rely on a `something.otherthing.title` kind of string-based format which is error-prone and **not** refactorable. It maps your JSON translation file to JavaScript objects so that you can call them like, surprise, regular objects.

{% hint style="info" %}

🧙**Tips:** Check the example application of this boilerplate to see how you can separate your translations into logical groups and make everything intellisense-supported 💪

{% endhint %}

### Using translations with hooks

Let's say your translation JSON is this:

```json
{
  "HomePage": {
    "Features": {
      "someItem": "Some text in English"
    }
  }
}
```

Now you can get the **`someItem`** translation very easily and safely with intellisense support.

```ts
import React from 'react';
import { useTranslation } from 'react-i18next';
import { translations, LanguageKeys } from 'locales/i18n';

export function MyComponent() {
  const { t, i18n } = useTranslation();
  const changLanguageButtonClicked = evt => {
    const language = event.target.value as LanguageKeys;
    i18n.changeLanguage(language);
  };
  // The nested objects are intellisense supported ✅
  return <div>{t(translations.HomePage.Features.someItem}</div>;
}
```

Check the [react-i18next](https://react.i18next.com/) docs for further examples. It's very flexible and well-featured.
